GitHub Copilot is an AI pair programmer that you can use to get suggestions for whole lines or entire functions right inside your editor.

In this unit, you’ll learn about GitHub Copilot and how the tool provides autocomplete suggestions.

## About GitHub Copilot

When you utilize GitHub Copilot, you will receive code suggestions by starting to write the code you want to use, or by writing a natural language comment describing what you want the code to do. GitHub Copilot analyzes the context in the file you are editing, as well as related files, and offers suggestions from within your text editor. GitHub Copilot is powered by OpenAI Codex, a new AI system created by OpenAI.

GitHub Copilot can help with each language that appears in public repositories. The quality of suggestions you receive may depend on the volume and diversity of training data for that language. For example, JavaScript is well represented in public repositories and is one of GitHub Copilot's best supported languages. Languages with less representation in public repositories may produce fewer or less robust suggestions.

GitHub Copilot can be used with GitHub.com, Visual Studio Code, Visual Studio, JetBrains IDEs, and Neovim as an unobtrusive extension

## Using GitHub Copilot

GitHub Copilot provides suggestions from a model that OpenAI built from billions of lines of open source code. You can spend less time creating boilerplate and repetitive code patterns, and more time on building great software. 

You can write a comment describing the logic you want and GitHub Copilot will immediately suggest code to implement the solution.

<!-- Possibly add the image from https://github.com/features/copilot under, Focus on solving bigger problems, or something similar →

### Assisting non-native English speakers

Importantly, GitHub Copilot can assist non-native English speakers and can understand other languages beyond English. This is helpful for developers of all backgrounds since programming languages are based on American English. 

In this example, the CSS property `color` is based on American English. It is unfamiliar for native British-English or Canadian-English speakers who use the spelling “colour”. Forgetting the correct spelling and syntax can often result in typos, unexpected errors, and lost time.

In the GIF below, I wrote a comment in Spanish that says, “importar”, which translates to “import”. GitHub Copilot quickly completed my comment in Spanish and imported the necessary libraries as the comment described.

<!-- Use the example from https://github.blog/2022-09-14-8-things-you-didnt-know-you-could-do-with-github-copilot/ under Assisting non-native English speakers -->

### Testing your code

GitHub Copilot excels in pattern recognition and pattern completion. It can speed up the process of writing unit tests, visual regression tests, and more. This is key since writing tests is a vital yet sometimes tedious step in the software development lifecycle.

### Securing your code

As a result of the training set for GitHub Copilot, the suggestions may contain insecure coding patterns, bugs, or references to outdated APIs or idioms. Therefore, ensuring the security and quality of your code is still very important. GitHub provides a number of features to help you monitor and improve code quality, such as GitHub Actions, Dependabot, CodeQL and code scanning.

GitHub Copilot uses filters to block offensive words in the prompts and avoid producing suggestions in sensitive contexts. GitHub is committed to constantly improving the filter system to more intelligently detect and remove offensive suggestions generated by GitHub Copilot, including biased, discriminatory, or abusive outputs.

In the next unit, you’ll learn about enabling GitHub Copilot for Business for your enterprise.

<!-- Do **not** include any other content like learning objectives, prerequisites, unit summary, "next unit" lead-in, or references. -->
