GitHub Copilot provides suggestions from a model that OpenAI built from billions of lines of open source code. You can spend less time creating boilerplate and repetitive code patterns, and more time on building great software. 

## Using GitHub Copilot

GitHub is continually updating the underlying Codex model to improve the quality of GitHub Copilot’s code suggestions. This results in large scale improvements to the quality of code suggestions and reduction of time to serve those suggestions to the users.

An AI-based vulnerability filtering system blocks insecure coding patterns in real-time to make GitHub Copilot suggestions more secure. The system leverages Large language models (LLMs) to approximate the behavior of static analysis tools. This can even detect vulnerable patterns in incomplete fragments of code. Meaning insecure coding patterns are quickly blocked and replaced by alternative suggestions.

You can write a comment describing the logic you want and GitHub Copilot will immediately suggest code to implement the solution. GitHub Copilot can assist in testing and securing your code, and assist non-native English speakers.

:::image type="content" source="../media/2-using-github-copilot - Focus.png" alt-text="Copilot snippet.":::

### Testing your code

GitHub Copilot excels in pattern recognition and pattern completion. It can speed up the process of writing unit tests, visual regression tests, and more. This is key since writing tests is a vital yet sometimes tedious step in the software development lifecycle.

### Securing your code

As a result of the training set for GitHub Copilot, the suggestions may contain insecure coding patterns, bugs, or references to outdated APIs or idioms. Therefore, ensuring the security and quality of your code is still very important. GitHub provides a number of features to help you monitor and improve code quality, such as GitHub Actions, Dependabot, CodeQL and code scanning.

GitHub Copilot uses filters to block offensive words in the prompts and avoid producing suggestions in sensitive contexts. GitHub is committed to constantly improving the filter system to more intelligently detect and remove offensive suggestions generated by GitHub Copilot, including biased, discriminatory, or abusive outputs.

## Assisting non-native English speakers

GitHub Copilot can understand languages beyond English, helping developers of all backgrounds with program languages that are based on American English.

In this example, the CSS property `color` is based on American English. It is unfamiliar for native British-English or Canadian-English speakers who use the spelling “colour”. Forgetting the correct spelling and syntax can often result in typos, unexpected errors, and lost time.

In the GIF below, I wrote a comment in Spanish that says, “importar”, which translates to “import”. GitHub Copilot quickly completed my comment in Spanish and imported the necessary libraries as the comment described.

<!-- Use the example from https://github.blog/2022-09-14-8-things-you-didnt-know-you-could-do-with-github-copilot/ under Assisting non-native English speakers -->

In the next unit, you’ll learn about enabling GitHub Copilot for Business for your enterprise.

<!-- Do not add a unit summary or references/links -->
